Move GPU compute article from WebFu to web.dev (#6113)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/gpu-compute/index.md

---
title: Get started with GPU Compute on the web 
subhead: |

>   This article is about me playing with the experimental WebGPU API and sharing
>   my journey with web developers interested in performing data-parallel
>   computations using the GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This post explores the experimental WebGPU API through examples
  and helps you get started with performing data-parallel
  computations using the GPU.
```

Author: Fixed. Thank you!

multiplication, a common algorithm in machine learning illustrated below.

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/q9PYk219Ykt873iQa0Vc.jpeg", alt="Matrix multiplication diagram", width="800", height="369" %}
  <figcaption>Matrix multiplication diagram</figcaption>
</figure>

In short, here's what we're going to do:

1. Create three GPU buffers (two for the matrices to multiply and one for the
  result matrix)
2. Describe input and output for the compute shader
3. Compile the compute shader code
4. Set up a compute pipeline
5. Submit in batch the encoded commands to the GPU
6. Read the result matrix GPU buffer

### GPU Buffers creation

For the sake of simplicity, matrices will be represented as a list of floating
point numbers. The first element is the number of rows, the second element the
number of columns, and the rest is the actual numbers of the matrix.

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/IUv15DMl2yDwTGxeJNux.jpeg", alt="Simple representation of a matrix in JavaScript and it's equivalent in mathematical notation", width="800", height="158" %}

>   <figcaption>Simple representation of a matrix in JavaScript and it's equivalent in mathematical notation</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: grammar nit: its, not it's (it is)

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

</figure>

The three GPU buffers are storage buffers as we need to store and retrieve data in
the compute shader. This explains why the GPU buffer usage flags include
`GPUBufferUsage.STORAGE` for all of them. The result matrix usage flag also has
`GPUBufferUsage.COPY_SRC` because it will be copied to another buffer for
reading once all GPU queue commands have all been executed.

```js
const adapter = await navigator.gpu.requestAdapter();

> if (!adapter) return;

Reviewer 2: {}'s around `return`

Author: Done.
